OSI open systems Interconnection
It has been developed by ISO International Organization for standardization 1984 .

OSI model defines and is used to understand - How data is transferred from one computer to another in computer network ?

In order to accomplish successfull communication between computers or networks of different architectures (windows , linux , mac) , OSI model was introduced .

7 layer architecture 
all these 7 layers work collaboratively to transmit the data from person to another 
across the globe .

software layers ::
Application layer
Presentation layer
session layer

Heart of OSI::
Transport layer

Hardware layers ::
Network layer
Data link layer
Physical Layer .

Each layer is package of protocol .

Physical layer ::
It is responsible for the actual physical connection between the devices .

Application -> software
1. Application layer : Network Applications likes that uses internet chrome firefox sykpe

Protocols ::
File transfer FTP  (File transfer Protocol)
web surfing  HTTP HTTPs (Hypertext Transfer Protocol)
Emails SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol)
Virtual terminals Telnet

application layer provide services for network applications with the help of protocols to perform user activity

2. Presentation layer
receives data from application layer . this data is in the form of characters and 

Translation Data
Compression
Encryption/Decryption

3. Session layer
APIs Application Programming interface
Example : NETBIOS Network Basic Input/output System

a. Session management .
b. Authentication : who are you ? username password 
c. Authorization

Authentication performed before connection build between in user and sever .

After authorization is done .
Session layer keeps track on files that being downloaded .

also check which files are being downloaded


4. Transport layer :
controls the reliabilty of communication through
Segmentation :
Data divides into segments(data unit) .
each segment contain sequence number and port number .

Flow control
server sending data 40mbps but we can download files 10mbps 
so transport layer tell server to slow down so data can not lost .

Error control ::
Automatic repeat request 

Protocols ::
TCP connection oriented transmission
UDP connectionless transmission
UDP is faster than TCP .


5. Network Layer
Tansport layer passes segments to network layer .

Data unit in network layer called Packets .

Logical Addressing
Routing
Path determination

Logical addressing 
Ipv4 IPv6

Path determination :
OSPF
BGP
IS-IS

6. Data Link Layer
Datanunit :: Frame
Physical addressing (mac address)

Access the media (Framing)
Controls how data is placed and received from the media .

Segment 
Packet
Frame

7. Physical layer


